e to power of I * PK + 1 is equal to 0
Oiler identity is one of the most famous
equations in math because it links five
fundamental mathematical constants 0 1
Pi the imaginary unit I and the Oilers
number at first glance this equation
might seem strange or hard to understand
because how does an irrational number
raised to the power of another
irrational number multiplied by I
results in minus one and what does it
even mean to raise a number to an
imaginary power let's start with Pi Pi
is a well-known constant in Geometry
representing the ratio of a circle ccum
furance to its diameter it is equal to
around 3.14 pi is also important in
measuring angles there are two main ways
to measure angles degrees and radians in
degrees a full circle is
360° but in radians a full circle is
measured as 2 pi radians for example s
of 90° is equal to S of Pi / 2 radians
which is equal to 1 in fields like
calculus and advanced mathematics angles
are usually measured in radians not
degrees and we usually don't write rod
for radians so if an angle is written
without a unit we assume it is in
radians radians are easier to use
because when we have a circle of radius
equal to 1 the length of an arc is equal
to the angle it subtends measured in
radians now let's talk about vote I
consider the equation x^2 + 1 is equal
to 0 if we rearrange it we get x^2 = to
- one there is no real number that when
squared gives a negative result this is
where the complex numbers come in we
Define I as the number which when
squared equals min-1 with I we can find
square roots of other negative numbers
for example the square root of - 9 is 3
I because 3 i^ 2 is equal to - 9 when we
multiply I by itself for repeatedly it
creates a cyclic pattern i - one - I 1
and again I to understand oil's identity
and the number e we first need to know
about derivatives the derivative
describes the rate of change of a
function at any given point let's look
at a graph of a function X cubed - 2x^2
- 3x + 3 at X = to -2 this function
increases rapidly but as X approaches
about - 0.4 the increase slows down the
growth rate goes to zero and after this
point the function starts to decrease
that's what a derivative measures the
value of the derivative at any point is
also equal to the slope of the line
tangent to the graph of the function at
that point the derivative of the
function f is denoted as F prime or as
d/ DX to calculate the derivative let's
start with calculating the slope of the
line going through two points suppose we
pick two points on the graph at x equal
to a and x equal to B their
y-coordinates are respectively F of a
and F of B so the height difference
between those two points is equal to F
of B minus F of a the horizontal
distance between these points is equal
to B minus a let's call that length H
now we also can write F of b as F of a
plus h the slope of the line going
through those two points is equal to F
of a plus hus F of a / H this formula
would give us the average rate of change
between points A and B but a derivative
describes the rate of change at a single
point not over an interval so to
calculate the slope of the tangent line
at Point a we just have to make H very
small as H gets closer and closer to
zero B gets closer and closer to a so to
calculate the slope of a tangent line at
Point a we just have to take a limit as
H approaches zero and exactly that is a
definition of the derivative to see how
it works let's look at a simpler
function for example F ofx = x^2 let's
calculate the derivative of this
function at Point a equal to 2 from the
definition of a derivative frime of 2 is
the limit as H approaches Z of f of 2 +
H minus F of 2 / H that is equal to the
limit of 4 + 4 H + h^ 2 - 4 / H and
after simplifying that is equal to 4 + H
as H approaches zero this is just equal
to 4 so the value of the derivative at a
equal to 2 is 4 but we can find a
general formula for the derivative of
this function to do this we calculate
the frime of X instead of 2 after
simplifying we get that FR Prime is just
equal to 2x so the derivative of f ofx =
x^2 at any point x is just equal to 2x
calculating derivatives doesn't always
require using the definition there are
some rules and shortcuts that can make
it easier the constant rule tell tells
us that the derivative of a function
multiplied by a constant is equal to the
derivative of that function multiplied
by that constant for example the
derivative of x^2 is 2x so the
derivative of 3 * x^2 will be equal to 3
* 2x the sum rule tells us that the
derivative of a function that is a sum
of functions f and g is the sum of the
derivatives of those functions the last
rule that we will need to understand
oil's identity is the power rule this
rule tells us that if we have a function
that is of form x ^ of a the derivative
of this function is equal to a * x ^ a
minus 1 for example the derivative of x
^ 4 is equal to 4 * X Cub finding
derivatives for some functions like s of
X requires a bit more work than just
using those rules we have to go back to
the definition of a derivative from the
definition the derivative of sin of X is
the limit as H approaches Z of sin of X
plus h - sin of x / H we can use a
trigonometric identity to expand sin of
x + H into sin of x * cosine of h plus
cosine of x * sin of H then we divide
this expression into two parts from the
first fraction we can factor out sin of
x from the second fraction we can factor
out cosine of x let's first see what
happens to the S of H over H as H
approachs as zero imagine a circle with
a radius of one and an angle of H Radian
the length of the Ark created by this
angle is also H the line perpendicular
to the radius is equal to the sign of H
as H gets smaller and smaller the sign
of H gets closer and closer to the arc
so the sign of H divided by H gets
closer to 1 so we know that the limit as
H approaches Z of s of h / H is equal to
1 knowing this we can calculate the
second part of the limit let's Square
both sides next we can use a
trigonometric identity
to write sin of h^ 2 as 1 - cosine of h^
2 we can write it as two separate
fractions and we can consider them as
two separate limits now we divide both
sides by the second limit if we
rearrange the right side is equal to the
Limit as H approach 0 of h / 1 + cosine
of H when we plug in zero for H we find
that the right side is equal to 0 now we
multiply both sides by minus one and we
get that the limit as H approaches Z of
cosine of H - 1 / H equal to 0 so the
derivative of sin of X is equal to the
cosine of x we can do the same thing for
cosine but we would get a minus sign
instead of plus sign so the derivative
of cosine of x is equal to minus sin of
X working with functions like s and
cosine is more complex than with pols
however we can express these functions
as infinite sums of powers of X known as
taor series let's assume that sin of X
can be expressed as an infinite
polinomial we can find the first term of
this series by plugging in zero for X we
get sign of 0 on the left side which is
equal to Z on the right side we are left
with only a because the other terms
become zero so a must be equal to Zer
now we calculate the derivatives of both
sides since the original functions are
equal their derivatives must also be
equal the derivative of sin of X is
cosine of x using the constant sum and
power rules we can find the derivative
of the right side now we set X to Zero
again and we know that b is equal to 1
now we repeat this process again and
again and that gives us all coefficients
the denominators of the coefficients can
be written as factorials of the odd
numbers we can use the same method to
find the tailor series for cosine of x
to understand the concept of number
number e let's look at exponential
functions for example F ofx = to 2 power
of X since this isn't a polinomial we
have to use the definition to find its
derivative the derivative of this
function is equal to the Limit as H
approaches Z of 2 to the^ x + H - 2 ^ x
/ H we can write 2 ^ of x + H as 2 ^ x *
2 the Power of H now we can factor out 2
the Power of X when we make H smaller
and smaller we find that this limit
approaches a number around
0.69 let's do the same thing for 3 to
the power of X the derivative ends up
being 3 to the power of x * around 1.1
for 2 and A2 to the power of X the
derivative is 2.5 to the^ of x times
around
0.91 now imagine we find a special
number for which this part is equal to 1
let's call this number e it means that
the derivative of e to the power of X is
equal to e to ^ of x * 1 so this
function is its own derivative now we
only know that e is bigger than 2.5 and
smaller than three there are many ways
to calculate the value of e but first
let's find a tailor series for the
function e to the power of X we will use
the same method as we used to find the
tailor series for S of X and cosine of x
we start by setting X to Zero this shows
that the first coefficient is equal to 1
next we take the derivatives of both
sides of the equation equation the left
side the derivative of e to ^ of X is
straightforward because e to the power
of X is its own derivative for the right
side we use the constant sum and power
rules then we set X to Zero again and we
find that b is equal to 1 we repeat this
process multiple times to calculate more
coefficients this gives us the tailor
series for E to^ of x to find the value
of e itself we can plug in one for X in
the tailor series and sum the terms
after sum the first seven terms of this
series we find that e is approximately
equal to
2.718 to understand Oiler identity let's
go back to the tailor series for S of X
and cosine of x the sum of the tailor
series for S of X and cosine of x is
similar to that of e to DX but the signs
are different but there is a number that
we can multiply X by to make the signs
match this number is i instead of e to ^
of X we can consider e to the power of I
* x i * x^ 2 is = to - x^ 2 the 3 power
gives us - I * X Cub the fourth x ^ 4
and so on now the signs match but some
of the terms are multiplied by I those
terms are exactly the terms of the sign
tailor Series so to make them equal we
can just multiply the S of X by I now we
know that the tailor series for E to ^
of X is equal to the sum of the tailor
series of cosine of x and sin of X
multiplied by I and it tells us that e^
I * X is equal to the cosine of x plus I
* the S of X now when we plug in pi for
X on the right side we get cosine of pi
plus I * the S of Pi cosine of pi is
equal to min-1 and S of Pi is equal to 0
so on the right side we are left with
just min-1 we can move the minus one to
the right side of the equation and that
is oil's identity e to the^ of I * piun
+ 1 is equal to 0